# Pill-dispenser
Medication adherence is a growing concern in the healthcare space. Adherence is the extent to which a person’s behaviour is consistent with healthcare recommendations and instructions for example intake of prescribed medicine. Studies reveal low levels or lack of adherence to prescribed medication across health states, treatments and ages resulting in as many as 5 to 11% of hospital admissions  [1]. 
Non- adherence to medication is common among elderly patients especially those with dementia. it also greatly affects the quality of life of people living with chronic illnesses such as diabetes, heart conditions and HIV [2] as well as  parents/caregivers responsible for administering medication to many children or patients. 
It can be very easy for these groups to forget to take medication at the required time or take the wrong dosage leading to overdose or under dose. Similarly people taking several medications at a time can easily take the wrong medication if not careful.[3]
For the elderly and very ill patients, families often lack appropriately trained and skilled caregivers to provide the required home care and ensure the healthcare recommendations have been adhered to. The available caregivers are often expensive thus straining finances, this may lead to hiring unqualified caregivers who may not administer medication in an appropriate or timely manner. Similarly, they can easily overdose or under dose their patients under the guise of listening to the patient, if the patient is in a lot of pain and requests more medication or is not feeling up to taking their medication, without necessarily knowing the long term health implication’s such non- adherence to the medication may have on the patient.
Under dosing is particularly common in discharged patients/ elderly receiving home based treatment and may lead to varied treatment outcome. This is because in hospitals, the treatment regimen is often adhered to and overseen by nurses and personnel. Because medications produce an adequate therapeutic response about 90% of the time, patients are more likely to recover quickly. Patients are then discharged at this pinnacle, and often deviate from the medications prescribed as well as other life style recommendations after returning home. This may result in seizures, fluid retention and pulmonary retention among others.[1]
